Wafting deviant class created in the last lecture it's now time to work on the service.
So let's add a new fall to the services folder the shopping list that yes file.
And again you could named a shopping list service that yes.
Now in this service file here I will export a class named shopping list service like this to describe
what it is.
And now here's your challenge try populating or filling this shopping service with live on your own.
Again we will need some property which this store is an array of ingredients and then we need methods
to add a new item to that array add multiple items at once remove the item or get a copy of that array
of shopping list ingredients.
Now this is your task.
Good luck with that.
And if you were stuck at some place try to finish all you feel able to finish.
And then we will CD or we will solve this together in a couple of seconds.
Time to pause to video now.
So were you successful.
Let's start with the property.
I'm going to make this a private property so that it's not accessible from outside.
And I'm just naming it ingredients.
This will hold all the ingredients.
So I will use my own ingredient class and therefore imported from the models folder appear to assign
the type to teletypes.
Which types of items will be stored in those ingredients property.
So an array of ingredients is how I define this type.
And it's an empty array at the beginning because we're starting with a empty shopping list.
Now in order to make sure that it doesn't stay empty we need to be able to add item now such a item
could ever be a finished ingredient like this.
You could say we're getting an ingredient or you expect to get a name and the amount and then you create
to the ingredient on the fly.
I'm going to go with the latter approach.
Both approaches are fine though.
So with this name and amount passed as arguments here I can go to my ingredients array up here and push
a new item on this array.
So I will create a new ingredient here on the fly using my constructor.
These types of class have just created a few seconds ago in the last lecture and they are deconstruct.
We need to pass a name and amount.
How convenient that we just got this as parameters here in this method.
This allows us to add a single item but sometimes especially when adding a whole recipe a list of ingredients
we need to be able to add multiple items at once.
So you're all Etty add items array Susan method.
And here I expect to get a list of items so items and this shall be an array of ingredients.
So not a list of names and amounts but just a finished list of ingredients.
Since we get this list of ingredients the question is how do we actually add this to our ingredients
array here.
Now unfortunately we can't say this ingredients push and then push an array that would push the array
to desiré but that means it simply creates one new element on our ingredients array which is this pushed
aere which is Dicere.
So it is not splitting up the array into its Invid individual items and passing it to our older.
Instead it will push this array as one single item which is not what we want to split up desiré into
the individual items we can use iOS 6 features supported by typescript.
The spread operator which is this operator the free dots.
In front of items means de-construct does array entry into its individual elements so that we have a
list of elements instead of an array of elements.
And then we can indeed use push to push all those individual elements to our existing array.
So this will now work as expected.
So with that we got methods to add items to the array.
Now we also want to be able to get this array or get a copy.
So I will add I get items Meffert and you could of course also name those methods add ingredient add
ingredients get ingredients whatever you like well and get items short.
In the end return those ingredients are great but I don't want to return it like this because this will
return a reference to the serape and you could do this there is not necessarily something wrong about
this but I also want to show an alternative.
If you want to show a copy which means if you added this copy thereafter it won't add a D original erase
stored here.
You can simply use slice without any arguments and this will create a real copy of this array and return
this copy instead of the actual array which will kind of also defeat the purpose of making it private
right.
Because if you return a full reference to your original array you're able to edit that from outside
thereafter.
Well and then finally I'll add or remove either method which allows me to pass the index off the item
I want to delete and then I can simply access my ingredients array and call the splice Meffert for these
past index and splice exactly one element which of course removes this single element with destry shopping
list service finished.
We're now able to add items to get items and to remove the item.
Let's now start hooking this up when we submit our form the year in the shopping list file and shopping
list page so that we actually add this item to desiré before we then add some logic to display it on
this page to